# History of lAppUpdate

At the beginning, I searched a means to deploy application for my two personal
pc from a home server (based on [freenas][1]). My searches led me to the
following products:

  * [OCS Inventory NG][2]: it's a good choice for IT professional who manages thousands of PC, and an agent must be deployed on every PC.
  * Active Directory GPO: you can do this with a Windows Server or a server with [Samba configured in domain controller mode][3]. The main constraint is that GPO accept only MSI package.

So I choose to develop my own deployment system built around two main module :
the first one, named [appdeploy][4], deploys application, the second one,
named [appdownload][5], checks and downloads applications' updates if any (or
the full installation package).

# Requirements

The requirements for this project were:

  * [appdeploy][4] must run on windows 7 without prerequisites (I.e. no agent must be prior installed). Theses implies that this modules must be written in [Command shell][6] or [Windows Script Host][7].
  * [appdeploy][4] must run from a network share (aka from a UNC path) or a removable disk (CD or DVD, USB stick...).
  * [appdeploy][4] must work with any type of installation package (MSI package, EXE package or a classic distribution with files and a setup.exe).
  * [appdeploy][4] must have pre install and post installation hook to customize the start menu or install additional packs (e.g. Firefox extension, VirtualBox Extension Pack, Tortoise Language Pack...)

# appdeploy

This script is a [public script][8]. It launches the installer package of the
standard application. See [Usage description syntax][9] for details about used
syntax.

## Usage

`appdeploy [set]`

## Arguments

`set`

is the set name, the script use a file named _applist-[set].txt_ which
matching [applist file format][10]. `all` is the default value.

## Exit code

**0**
no error

**1**
an error occurred while filtering application

**2**
invalid argument. An argument of the command line is not valid (see Usage)

## Environment variables

The following environment variables affect the execution of `appdeploy`:

[APP_STORE_DIR][11]

Contain the path for installation package and the [applist][10] files.

[TO_MAIL_ADDR][12]

Contain the mail address of the mail recipient (typically a system
administrator)

[FROM_MAIL_ADDR][13]

Contain the mail address of the mail sender (typically machine mail address)

[SMTP_SERVER][14]

Contain the fully qualified name of the SMTP server to use

[SMTP_SERVER_PORT][15]

Contain the SMTP server’s port number to use

[UPDATE_LOGFILE][16]

Contain the full path name of the current log file. All log entries for the
current update transaction are write in this file.

[WARNING_LOGFILE][17]

Contain the full path name of the current warning log file. All warning
messages for the current update transaction are write in this file.

[SUMMARY_LOGFILE][18]

Contain the full path name of the current summary log file. All summary
messages for the current update transaction are write in this file.

[ARCHIVE_LOGFILE][19]

Contain the full path name of the persistent log file. All messages for the
current update transaction are write in this file.

[SILENT][20]

Specify the scripts logging mode.

[LOGMAIL][21]

Specify if a mail containing the current appdeploy log messages will be sent
(see [_log2mail][22] script).

[LOGLEVEL][23]

Specify the maximum level of log entries written in log files (see
[UPDATE_LOGFILE][16] and [WARNING_LOGFILE][17]).

* * *

This file was automatically generated by [TiddlyWiki][24].

   [1]: http://www.freenas.org/
   [2]: http://www.ocsinventory-ng.org/en/
   [3]: https://wiki.samba.org/index.php/Samba_AD_DC_HOWTO
   [4]: #appdeploy
   [5]: #appdownload
   [6]: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc754340.aspx#BKMK_OVR
   [7]: https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/d1wf56tt.aspx
   [8]: #Public%20script
   [9]: #Usage%20description%20syntax
   [10]: #applist
   [11]: #APP_STORE_DIR
   [12]: #TO_MAIL_ADDR
   [13]: #FROM_MAIL_ADDR
   [14]: #SMTP_SERVER
   [15]: #SMTP_SERVER_PORT
   [16]: #UPDATE_LOGFILE
   [17]: #WARNING_LOGFILE
   [18]: #SUMMARY_LOGFILE
   [19]: #ARCHIVE_LOGFILE
   [20]: #SILENT
   [21]: #LOGMAIL
   [22]: #_log2mail
   [23]: #LOGLEVEL
   [24]: http://tiddlywiki.com/

